fea: llm-gateway: unified endpoint [addresses ENT-1476] (#5195)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/llm-gateway-unified-endpoint.mdx

---
title: Unified endpoint
description: List and call models across all your configured providers through a single gateway base URL, using provider-prefixed model IDs and the OpenAI Responses API.
---

> <Note>
> **Private beta:** The LLM Gateway is in private [beta](/langsmith/release-stages). Sign up for [the waitlist](https://www.langchain.com/langsmith-llm-gateway-waitlist) to get access.
> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note>
**Beta:** The LLM Gateway is in [beta](/langsmith/release-stages).
</Note>
```

OK?

The unified endpoint exposes the providers you've configured on the LLM Gateway behind a single base URL at the gateway root. Instead of pointing each client at a provider-specific path like `/openai` or `/anthropic`, you list models and call them from one place, addressing each model with a provider-prefixed ID such as `openai/gpt-4o-mini`, `fireworks/accounts/fireworks/models/glm-5p2`, or `anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-6`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This page shows you how to:

- Set up the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) for the unified endpoint.
- [List available models](#list-available-models) across configured providers.
- [Call a model](#call-a-model) with a provider-prefixed ID.
- Understand [how requests are translated](#how-requests-are-translated) between the Responses API and each provider's native API.

```

<Card title="Base URL" icon="link">
Point any OpenAI-compatible client at:

```text
https://gateway.smith.langchain.com/v1
```

Authenticate with your LangSmith API key, passed by your clients as the provider API key.

For regional base URLs, see [Regional gateways](/langsmith/llm-gateway#regional-gateways).
</Card>

## Prerequisites

Before using the unified endpoint, confirm that:

> - Your [Organization admin](/langsmith/rbac#organization-admin) has added [Provider Secrets](/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup#2-add-provider-secrets) for the providers you want to call. The unified endpoint resolves upstream credentials from the same workspace secrets as the provider-specific gateway paths—see [Admin setup](/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your [Organization admin](/langsmith/rbac#organization-admin) has added [Provider Secrets](/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup#2-add-provider-secrets) for the providers you want to call. The unified endpoint resolves upstream credentials from the same workspace secrets as the provider-specific gateway paths. Refer to [Admin setup](/langsmith/llm-gateway-admin-setup).
```

- You have a workspace-scoped [LangSmith API key](/langsmith/create-account-api-key) attached to a role with `gateway:invoke` and `workspaces:read` [permissions](/langsmith/organization-workspace-operations).

## List available models

Call `GET /v1/models` to list the models available to your workspace across providers:

```bash
curl https://gateway.smith.langchain.com/v1/models \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $LANGSMITH_API_KEY"
```

> The gateway aggregates each provider's model catalog into a single OpenAI-compatible list. Every model ID is prefixed with the provider name in the form `<provider>/<model>`—this prefixed ID is what you pass as `model` when making a call:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The gateway aggregates each provider's model catalog into a single OpenAI-compatible list. Every model ID is prefixed with the provider name in the form `<provider>/<model>`. The prefixed ID is what you pass as `model` when making a call:
```

## Call a model

Call models with `POST /v1/responses`, the [OpenAI Responses API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/responses) shape. Set `model` to the full provider-prefixed ID:

<CodeGroup>

```bash OpenAI model
curl https://gateway.smith.langchain.com/v1/responses \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $LANGSMITH_API_KEY" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"model":"openai/gpt-4o-mini","input":"ping"}'
```

```bash Fireworks model
curl https://gateway.smith.langchain.com/v1/responses \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $LANGSMITH_API_KEY" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"model":"fireworks/accounts/fireworks/models/glm-5p2","input":"ping"}'
```

```bash Anthropic model
curl https://gateway.smith.langchain.com/v1/responses \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $LANGSMITH_API_KEY" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{"model":"anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-6","input":"ping"}'
```

</CodeGroup>

> The `model` field must be provider-prefixed. A bare model name such as `gpt-4o-mini` is rejected with a `400` error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must ensure that the `model` field is provider-prefixed. A bare model name such as `gpt-4o-mini` returns a `400` error
```

<Note>

> The unified endpoint accepts Responses API requests. `/chat/completions` and `/messages` support is coming soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unified endpoint accepts Responses API requests.
```
It's preferable to remove feature promises, but I'll leave you to decide.
